# iHol: Genome-scale metabolic model of the _Rhizopus microsporus_ holobiont

_Rhizopus microsporus_ often lives in intimate association with bacterial and viral symbionts that alter its biology. This fungal model represents an outstanding example of the complex interactions established between diverse organisms in functional holobionts. Here we used publicly available genomic data to reconstruct a genome-scale metabolic model of the fungal-bacterial-viral holobiont (iHol) and implemented constraint-based methods to decipher the metabolic interaction of the symbionts. Our computational analysis of iHol simulates the growth of the holobiont and production of rhizoxin, the potent antimitotic toxin, synthetized by the symbiotic bacteria _Mycetohabitans_ in the system. A comparative analysis of the flux distributions between _R. microsporus_ in symbiotic (iHol) and cured conditions (without the bacterial and viral symbionts) suggests that important changes in the nucleotide and lipid metabolism of the host are required for the functionality of the holobiont. Our simulations revealed that glycerol has a pivotal role in the fungal-bacterial metabolic interaction as its production does not compromise fungal growth and this metabolite can be efficiently consumed by _Mycetohabitans_ as a carbon source. Our _in-silico_ analysis also showed the maintained metabolic stability of _Mycetohabitans_ along the co-evolution with the fungal host and predicted important changes in reactions of the bacterial metabolism required for active production of rhizoxin in intracellular conditions. Our research provides insights into the complex metabolic interaction established between the tripartite holobiont of _R. microsporus_.
